# Frequently Asked Questions

## How old is the Sumcash project?

Sumcash's chain started on April 7th, 2019 at 18:00:00 UTC. There was no premine and the launch of the project was announced nine days before it went live.  You can read the original announcement thread here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=101820.0

## How can I mine Sumcash?

Sumcash uses the Scrypt cryptographic hash function. Any hardware that can effectively mine Bitcoin can be used to mine Sumcash.

## Why a 1% minting return on staking?  Why isn't there a hard limit on the total number of Sumcash's? Doesn't this disqualify Sumcash as a deflationary currency?

Sumcash has a 1% inflation rate to allow for participant determined growth over time. Fully deflationary currencies cannot be used as mediums of exchange, but rather solely stores of value. By allowing for a manageable inflation rate, Sumcash remains scarce while allowing for growth determined by participation. This also helps offset coins that are removed from circulation through lost wallets or malevolent destruction.

## Why a fixed transaction fee?

Sumcash's fixed transaction fee filters out spam transactions which have damaged chains like Bitcoin. It also allows for predictable sending fees, which may become rapidly unpredictable on chains where fees can rapidly change leaving transactions in limbo for several days. This allows for first come, first serve transactions as well. Sumcash is able to scale without worrying about valuation effecting the usability.  In version 0.7, the transaction fee is being lowered from 0.01 Sumcash to 0.001 Sumcash.

## How can the Sumcash network survive without miners providing PoW security, especially during times of low interest?

Proof of work serves to distribute coins through as an inflationary mechanism. The Sumcash network is secured by coin age and proof of stake.  With pure proof of work chains, holders have little ability to secure the chain with the high cost of mining equipment being a barrier to entry. Any Sumcash holder can protect their investment by allowing a transaction to mature and leaving the wallet open for minting keeps the network secure and has done so since Sumcash's inception.

## I just moved Sumcashs to my wallet and it says I have a zero percent chance of minting in the next 30 days.  Why is that?

Sumcash transactions must mature 30 days or roughly 4320 blocks before they can become eligible for minting. This number is updated roughly every six hours. Once the 30 day period passes, your coins will become eligible and the minting probability should adjust accordingly.

## How many confirmations are required on the Sumcash network for a transaction?

Six confirmations for a transaction to be verified. Each block takes about 30 Seconds.

## I just minted some coins but it says they are unavailable at the moment.  Why is that?

Once a transaction mints, it takes 520 confirmations before these become unlocked. This is done to prevent spoofed minting. Each block on the Sumcash network takes about 30 Seconds and so it takes 5,200 minutes or around 3.6 days for the minted coins to become available.

____________
